## CS1010 Programming Methodology

**AY20/21 SEM 1, taught by Prof. Ooi Wei Tsang.**

A great module that introduces students to the fundamental concepts of problem solving in computing and programming. CS1010 was taught in C and the topics covered include computational thinking and problem solving, functions, types, conditionals, logical expressions, assertion, loops, call stack, memory addresses, array, string, heap, multi-dimensional array, C preprocessor, efficiency, searching and sorting algorithms, recursion (tower of hanoi, permutation, and N-Queens), and struct. For more information, visit the [course website](https://nus-cs1010.github.io/2021-s1/).

CS1010 was a very difficult module, especially for a beginner like me who had never even touch a computer before coming to university. Having said that, it was an incredibly rewarding module if you put the effort to study hard. This module will really drill you on all the basic but very important concepts, such as pointers and memory addresses, which are concepts that are often abstracted away from you in many other higher-level programming languages.

The iteration of CS1010 in AY20/21 was taught by Prof. Ooi Wei Tsang. He was a very competent and great lecturer, but also had such high standards when it comes to code quality; this was also partially the reason why the module was significantly more difficult than its predecessors. The grading for this module comes from the weekly assignments (9 in total), two PEs, a midterm, and a final exam. In my opinion, the PEs were the most difficult to score. Why? During each PE, we were given 5 problems (from easy to very hard) and we had to solve them under a time constraint (basically similar to a competitive programming setup). The grading criteria consists of correctness, style, and efficiency of the solutions. If I recall correctly, most students only managed to answer 1 out of 5 questions on the second PE. If you are taking this module, my advice is to really have strong understandings in all the lecture topics and to keep on practising and solving lots of programming problems. Don't be discouraged if you think that the module is difficult because most of your friends are on the same boat! Don't believe me? You can check out the [module feedback for my cohort](https://nus-cs1010.github.io/2122-s1/docs/feedback-2021-s1.pdf), where more than 90% of the students indicated that the module was difficult. I am no genius but I made it through this module with a decent grade. If I can do it, you can do it too!

This folder contains all the assignments that I have done, but they are by no means the *model answers*. However, I do have the *master solutions* that I will not upload here, but feel free to contact me if you wish to access them. Please use this folder as references and **NOT** as easy solutions to the assignments. I will remove this folder from my repository if requested by NUS.
