## CS2113T Software Engineering & Object-Oriented Programming

**AY21/22 SEM 1, taught by Prof. Akshay Narayan.**

This module introduces students to the systematic and rigorous development of software systems. It covers requirements, design, implementation, quality assurance, and project management aspects of small-to-medium size multi-person software projects. CS2113T also covers Object Oriented Programming paradigm with Java. For more information, visit the [course website](https://nus-cs2113-ay2122s1.github.io/website/).

The main graded components from this module are the iP (individual project) and the tP (team project). The iP is graded based on implementation, documentation, and project management. The tP is graded similarly + design and quality assurance. You can visit [my iP](https://github.com/richwill28/ip) and [my team's tP](https://github.com/AY2122S1-CS2113T-W11-3/tp) to find out more.

Unfortunately, CS2113T does not cover as much depth as CS2030S in terms of OOP. It is also easier and has significantly less content compared with CS2103T. For instance, we are [discouraged from building a GUI app](https://nus-cs2113-ay2122s1.github.io/website/admin/tp-constraints.html#recommendation-no-gui) for the tP, but this is not the case for CS2103T. I am not saying that CLI is inferior to GUI, but the fact that it is discouraged means nobody will be motivated to do so, hence I did not have the experience of creating a GUI app from this module. One could argue that this is not really essential, and I do agree to some extent. However, since CS and CEG students are basically competing for the same job market, by just having an additional experience matters. Personally, I think this is a flaw considering how the [CEG curriculum](https://ceg.nus.edu.sg/wp-content/uploads/sites/3/2020/06/AY2021_CEG1-Recommended-Schedule-Direct_18Jun20.pdf) is structured. In other words, a typical CEG student will only have the chance of building *toy programs* even after semester 3 (that is 1.5 years!). Personally, I did not learn much from this module aside from the topics on software design, quality assurance, and UML diagrams.

In my opinion, it is better for students to take CS2030S + CS2103T, rather than CS2113T only. Sadly, CEG students are automatically allocated to CS2113T due to the core modules requirement. Fortunately, Prof. Akshay is a professional lecturer and is always willing to share his thoughts and experiences on the contents of the module (sometimes beyond). One of my favorite part of CS2113T would be the forum, where Prof. Akshay is very active in answering our questions. However, the overall forum participation from the students of my cohort are very low, so it is quite disappointing.

One more thing that I would like to highlight from this module is the [PE](https://nus-cs2113-ay2122s1.github.io/website/admin/tp-pe.html#tp-practical-exam). I will not explain what the PE is about (refer to the website if interested), but conceptually I like it. Unfortunately for my team, the [phase 2 (developer phase)](https://nus-cs2113-ay2122s1.github.io/website/admin/tp-pe.html#pe-phase-2-developer-response-2) of the PE was not a pleasant experience at all. We received a lot of duplicate, nonsense, and dishonest bug reports. Our team provided proper explanations for all the reports, but I am honestly surprised that people are willing to argue their obviously-unreasonable reports, just for the slightest increases in points that will hardly affect their final grade anyway (i.e., wasting everyone's time). The fact that these people are in my cohort couldn't be more disappointing (you know who you are, and I am calling you out). Obviously, the PE experience will be different for everyone, just hope you don't experience what my team did.

This folder contains all the weekly exercises that I have done, but they are by no means the *model answers*. Please use this folder as references and **NOT** as easy solutions to the exercises. I have also attached a cheatsheet (actually more of a condensed notes) that I used during the final exam. I will remove this folder from my repository if requested by NUS.
